

This is the reduced kidney metabolic network described in the article  
**Drug off-target effects predicted using structural analysis in the context of a metabolic network model.**   
Chang RL, Xie L, Xie L, Bourne PE, Palsson BØ. _PLoS Comput Biol._ 2010 Sep
23;6(9):e1000938. PMID:
[20957118](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20957118) , DOI:
[10.1371/journal.pcbi.1000938](http://dx.doi.org/10.1371/journal.pcbi.1000938)

Abstract:  
Recent advances in structural bioinformatics have enabled the prediction of
protein-drug off-targets based on their ligand binding sites. Concurrent
developments in systems biology allow for prediction of the functional effects
of system perturbations using large-scale network models. Integration of these
two capabilities provides a framework for evaluating metabolic drug response
phenotypes in silico. This combined approach was applied to investigate the
hypertensive side effect of the cholesteryl ester transfer protein inhibitor
torcetrapib in the context of human renal function. A metabolic kidney model
was generated in which to simulate drug treatment. Causal drug off-targets
were predicted that have previously been observed to impact renal function in
gene-deficient patients and may play a role in the adverse side effects
observed in clinical trials. Genetic risk factors for drug treatment were also
predicted that correspond to both characterized and unknown renal metabolic
disorders as well as cryptic genetic deficiencies that are not expected to
exhibit a renal disorder phenotype except under drug treatment. This study
represents a novel integration of structural and systems biology and a first
step towards computational systems medicine. The methodology introduced herein
has important implications for drug development and personalized medicine.

This model was downloaded from the supplementary materials to the article. To
make this file valid SBML, in some ids brackets had to be replaced, and all
parameter units were changed from mmole per gDW per hour to mmole per hour.
The model can be used, amongst others, with the [COBRA
toolbox](http://gcrg.ucsd.edu/Downloads/Cobra_Toolbox) .

This model originates from BioModels Database: A Database of Annotated
Published Models (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/). It is copyright (c)
2005-2011 The BioModels.net Team.  
To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

In summary, you are entitled to use this encoded model in absolutely any
manner you deem suitable, verbatim, or with modification, alone or embedded it
in a larger context, redistribute it, commercially or not, in a restricted way
or not..  
  
To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Novère N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)

